# TPC Line Laser Steering

This is the repository for the steering and controls software of the [sPHENIX](https://www.sphenix.bnl.gov/) Time Projection Chamber (TPC) tracking detector's directed line laser calibration system.  


## Description

The line laser system is used to generate particle tracks of known position and orientation in the working gas of the TPC, thus allowing identification of distortions generated by inhomogeneities in the applied electric and magnetic field.  Correcting for these distortions will enable more accurate reconstruction of particle tracks.

Each laser (total of 8 benches) is steered with a set of piezomotors, motor controllers, and associated electronics.  These are controlled via a PC connected to BNL's network.  No local installation is required since the steering and controls software is already installed on this PC.


## Getting Started

### Executing programs

Using a command-line interface, log into BNL SDCC then tunnel to the sPHENIX operations server.  From there, navigate to the `~/laser/tpc_laser_steering/` directory.  Programs to steer the laser are primarily found in the `./bin` directory

* How to run the program
* Step-by-step bullets
```
code blocks for commands
```

`git clone `

### "Fixed" Variables

### Dependencies

Program requires python3 
* Describe any prerequisites, libraries, OS version, etc., needed before installing program.
* ex. Windows 10

### Installing

* How/where to download your program
* Any modifications needed to be made to files/folders

## TL;DR

### Commands

* `./executeXMS.sh` -- starts the XMS, which is automatic when the device is powered

* `./stopXMS.sh` -- stops the XMS, eg if in a broken loop.

* `./killXCD2.sh` -- stops the XMS, kills movement on both axes, and disables

* `./clearDogleg.py` -- resets error states in the controller status.  8=nack, 9=busy, 1=fail, 98=rebooted

* `./homeDogleg.py` -- moves the current axis to home and keeps track of rotations.  stops if |rotations|>3

* `./gotoDogleg.py 3.1` -- moves the current axis to absolute position 3.1, with occasional backs to unbind.   stops if |rotations|>3

* `./gotoDogleg.py L0_DL0_A0 1.7` -- moves axis A0 on DogLeg 0 to absolute position 1.7.  If that axis is not what is currently being controlled, it saves the current axis data to a file, then loads the correct axis data from the named file before moving.

* `./relativeDogleg.py -0.5` -- moves the current axis -0.5 from its current position , with occasional backs to unbind.  stops if |rotations|>3


if needed:
`./quickAssign.py XAXIS 1` -- switches the current axis to axis 1 (other data will not be updated).  Use '0' to switch to zero.
`./changeAxisDogleg.py L0_DL0_A0` -- switches the axis to axis 0 for dogleg 0 on laser 0, and loads the last known variables for that axis from file to the controller, if the file exists.  Writes out the current file for the current axis as well.


## Help

Any advise for common problems or issues.
```
command to run if program contains helper info
```

## Version History

* 0.2
    * Various bug fixes and optimizations
    * See [commit change]() or See [release history]()
* 0.1
    * Initial Release

## License

This project is licensed under the [NAME HERE] License - see the LICENSE.md file for details

## Acknowledgments

This is the 

For dev work:
1) stop any running loops in the .s19 software, then restart

./killXCD2.sh ; ./startXMS.sh

2)set up the default ports and UARTS for an egg (or 'doglegs' if doing those)

./assignPorts_forDebugOnly.py egg

3) update the ports:
   
./updatePorts.py

then set the active port and axis with:

./changeAxisDogleg DEBUG_PH (or _TH_S or _TH_L or _DL_A0 or _DL_A1)

3a) the first time you do this, you will need to clear the 'boot' error:

./quickAssign.py V19 0

3b) in other error modes, you can clear with: (this works on all motos, not just the doglegs)

./clearDogleg.py

then you can run homePhi on the phi motors, or homeThetaL or homeThetaS on those motors

./homePhi.py test

the 'test' can be any string, and checks against the kfdb to see if there is existing data.
if it gets stuck in the loop you can go back and killXCD2 above.

Commands to control the Direct Laser controllers and the XCD Evaluation kit using USB

Direct Laser Alignment commands:

(all in XCDCommandCodes/bin)

./startXMS.sh -- starts the XMS, which is automatic when the device is powered

./stopXMS.sh -- stops the XMS, eg if in a broken loop.

./clearDogleg.py -- resets error states in the controller status.  8=nack, 9=busy, 1=fail, 98=rebooted

./homeDogleg.py -- moves the current axis to home and keeps track of rotations.  stops if |rotations|>3

./gotoDogleg.py 3.1 -- moves the current axis to absolute position 3.1, with occasional backs to unbind.   stops if |rotations|>3

./gotoDogleg.py L0_DL0_A0 1.7 -- moves axis A0 on DogLeg 0 to absolute position 1.7.  If that axis is not what is currently being controlled, it saves the current axis data to a file, then loads the correct axis data from the named file before moving.

./relativeDogleg.py -0.5 -- moves the current axis -0.5 from its current position , with occasional backs to unbind.  stops if |rotations|>3



if needed:
./quickAssign.py XAXIS 1 -- switches the current axis to axis 1 (other data will not be updated).  Use '0' to switch to zero.
./changeAxisDogleg.py L0_DL0_A0 -- switches the axis to axis 0 for dogleg 0 on laser 0, and loads the last known variables for that axis from file to the controller, if the file exists.  Writes out the current file for the current axis as well.

Files:

XCD Commands:
  talkNano.py: 
  
  readNano.py

  {assign, config, configRev, home, kill, move, pulse, report}Nano.py: individual motor command scripts
  
  cmdNano.py: high level command
  
  variableDictionary.py: dictionary of XCD variables, used in some commands
  
  commandDictionary.py: dictionary of XCD commands, used in cmdNano.py
  
XCD2 Commands:

Other:
  SetupXCD.sh: sets serial port baud rate in bash
  Home{Right, Left}.sh: sends XCD home command in bash
  
Ignore:
  playNano:
